Doc 448 Windows | Containers (#455)
minio/docs: source/quickstart/windows.rst

.. default-domain:: minio

.. |OS| replace:: Windows

> Use the procedures on this page to deploy MinIO in :guilabel:`Standalone Mode` on a single local |OS| harddrive as a single MinIO server process (what we call "filesystem mode") with a :ref:`subset of S3 features<minio-installation-comparison>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the procedures on this page to deploy MinIO in :guilabel:`Standalone Mode` on a single local |OS| harddrive as a single MinIO server process (what we call "filesystem mode") with a :ref:`subset of S3 features <minio-installation-comparison>`.
```

Reviewer: The space might not be necessary from a parser point of view but I'd still put it in there - makes find-replace a little easier too.

The MinIO server provides an S3 access layer to the drive or volume with no :ref:`erasure coding <minio-erasure-coding>` or associated features.

Use :guilabel:`Standalone Mode` for early development and evaluation environments.
For instructions on deploying to production environments, see :ref:`deploy-minio-distributed`.

Prerequisites
-------------

> - Read, write, and execute permissions for the user's directory

Reviewer: On windows I assume it has to be on the preferred local directory and folder path vs a user directory. It could just as easily be at the root of C:/

- Familiarity with using the Command Prompt or PowerShell

Procedure
---------

#. Download the MinIO Server

   Download the MinIO executable from the following URL:

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

      https://dl.min.io/server/minio/release/windows-amd64/minio.exe
      

>    Do not attempt to run the executable.

Reviewer: Is this intended to prevent the double-click behavior? if so I would tweak to:

```
The next step includes instructions for running the executable. You cannot run the executable from the Explorer or by double clicking.

   You call the executable to launch the server.

#. Launch the :mc:`minio server`

   In PowerShell or the Command Prompt, navigate to the location of the executable or add the path of the ``minio.exe`` file to the system ``$PATH``.
   
   Use this command to start a local MinIO instance in the ``C:\minio`` folder.

>    If desired, you can replace ``C:\minio`` with another location to use for the MinIO instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can replace ``C:\minio`` with another drive or folder path on the local computer.
```

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

      .\minio.exe server C:\minio

   The :mc:`minio server` process prints its output to the system console, similar to the following:

   .. code-block:: shell

      API: http://192.0.2.10:9000  http://127.0.0.1:9000
      RootUser: minioadmin
      RootPass: minioadmin

      Console: http://192.0.2.10:9001 http://127.0.0.1:9001
      RootUser: minioadmin
      RootPass: minioadmin

      Command-line: https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-client-quickstart-guide
         $ mc alias set myminio http://192.0.2.10:9000 minioadmin minioadmin

      Documentation: https://docs.min.io

      WARNING: Detected default credentials 'minioadmin:minioadmin', we recommend that you change these values with 'MINIO_ROOT_USER' and 'MINIO_ROOT_PASSWORD' environment variables.

> 

Reviewer: We should mention here the process is tied to the current PowerShell/CMD window. Closing the window stops the server.

#. Connect to the Server

>    In your browser, go to http://127.0.0.1:9000.
> 
>    Access the :ref:`minio-console` by going to a browser (such as Microsoft Edge) and enter one of the Console address specified in the :mc:`minio server` command's output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Open http://127.0.0.1:9000 in a web browser to access the :ref:`MinIO Console <minio-console>`. You can alternatively enter any of the network addresses specified as part of the server command output.
```

   If you go to port ``9000``, which is used for connecting to the API, you are automatically redirected to the Console port.

   Log in to the Console with the ``RootUser`` and ``RootPass`` user credentials displayed in the output.
   These default to ``minioadmin | minioadmin``.

   .. image:: /images/minio-console-dashboard.png
      :width: 600px
      :alt: MinIO Console Dashboard displaying Monitoring Data
      :align: center

   You can use the MinIO Console for general administration tasks like Identity and Access Management, Metrics and Log Monitoring, or Server Configuration. 
   Each MinIO server includes its own embedded MinIO Console.

   From the console, you can create and manage buckets, add objects, and many other tasks.
   For more information, see the :ref:`minio-console` documentation.

#. `(Optional)` Install the MinIO Client

   The :ref:`MinIO Client <minio-client>` allows you to work with your MinIO volume from the commandline.

   Download the standalone MinIO server for Windows from the following link:

   https://dl.min.io/client/mc/release/windows-amd64/mc.exe

>    Double click on the file to run it.

Reviewer: Does double clicking work for mc? interesting.

Author: Yes, you actually have to install it to make the `mc` command available at the prompt.

Reviewer: Interesting - I'd recommend we say that so the behavior on run is explicit. This is an unknown binary so we should say what happens when it's executed outside of the commandline.

   Each MinIO server includes its own embedded MinIO Console.

   .. image:: /images/minio-console-login.png
      :width: 400px
      :alt: MinIO Console displaying login screen
      :align: center

   From the console, you can create and manage buckets, add objects, and many other tasks.
   For more information, see the :ref:`minio-console` documentation.

   .. image:: /images/minio-console-buckets.png
      :width: 600px
      :alt: MinIO Console displaying bucket start screen
      :align: center

#. `(Optional)` Install the MinIO Client

   The :ref:`MinIO Client <minio-client>` allows you to work with your MinIO volume from the commandline.

   Download the standalone MinIO server for Windows from the following link:

   https://dl.min.io/client/mc/release/windows-amd64/mc.exe

   Double click on the file to run it.
   Or, run the following in the Command Prompt or PowerShell.
   
   .. code-block::
      :class: copyable

      \path\to\mc.exe --help
      
   Use :mc-cmd:`mc alias set` to quickly authenticate and connect to the MinIO deployment.

   .. code-block:: shell
      :class: copyable

>       mc alias set local http://127.0.0.1:9000 minioadmin minioadmin

Reviewer: mc.exe

      mc admin info local

>    The :mc-cmd:`mc alias set` takes four arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The :mc-cmd:`mc.exe alias set <mc alias set>` takes four arguments:
```

Reviewer: This keeps the text consistent while still pointing at the reference docs.
